Welcome, better late than never,
into the library studio of the Yahowah Blog.
I'm your host, Craig Winn.
We are going to continue with our ongoing
story.
Of the last word picture,
as we have learned thus far, that Dowd,
who is the Messiah and the Son of
God, he is our Savior,
he is returning King.
He is the person that
was copied to create the myth of Jesus.
He's the one we should be paying attention
to.
But as it would transpire,
he had a very bad moment in his
life.
I think it was caused by having spent
forty eight years and the full brightness
of responsibility to convey Yahowah's
message to his people,
a job that heretofore no one has been
able to complete.
And he started drinking too much wine,
made some terrible mistakes,
and God condemned him for it.
not condemning him to hell,
not condemning him to death,
but accusing him, holding him accountable,
and saying that he had disappointed him
tremendously.
And Dowd,
rather than trying to ascertain what he
had done wrong,
and then simply getting up and doing the
right thing again,
He doubled down on misery,
and the fifty-first Psalm is testament to
that.
It is by far the worst of the
hundred and fifty-five that we have in the
Tanakh.
It's horrible.
He said unbelievably bad things after
doing insanely bad things.
Now, fortunately,
we know that after I have finished
reviewing this,
my hope is that over the episodes today,
tomorrow,
that we complete the fifty-first so that
we can rejoin in the story of Dowd
with the hundred and sixteenth Mizmowr.
because it is the glorious celebration of
the realization that after the
intervention by a surrogate mother and
father, the ‘Amah and her Baal husband,
that Dowd came to his senses.
He not only manned up and started to
fly right as they say,
but he agreed with the importance of
fulfilling the mission.
And that's what prepared him to be the
Passover lamb,
to carry our guilt and his into Sheowl
on Matsah to become our savior.
But we're a long way from that point.
We're in the darkness of his lashing out
at God after God properly assessed his
behavior and told Dowd how disappointed he
was in him.
So as we progress,
we have gone through only three statements
of the fifty first.
It's only nineteen statements long.
It's just that each one is problematic.
And in the fourth,
we find that Dowd is now doubling down
on Chata', which means to go away,
to become misleading.
And he's doing so by using the verbal
root.
And then Dowd would add a dose of
ra', of evil ineptitude into the mix.
And while the la 'atah, towards you,
introductory clause was true enough,
the la bad 'atah,
and only towards you in what follows,
was not.
Towards you, and to you alone,
I have Chatta’ah'.
been mistaken,
incurring the guilt of having gone astray.
Chatta’ah' any' was,
I was wrong for missing the way,
forfeiting the relationship and bearing
the loss,
incurring the resulting punishment of
failing to accomplish the goal and failing
and falling well short of the desired
intent.
And this raw, evil,
malignant and malevolent thing
this raw, this wicked, very bad,
fiercely harmful and miserably troubling,
distressful act.
In your sight,
from your perspective and understanding,
I did.
So on that account,
you may be justified and correct in
speaking these words so emphatically for
yourself.
You are morally superior and justified,
even acquitted in your show of judgment.
Mizmowr Psalm, Psalm,
it's so hard to read these words because
they are so distressing.
Well, Dowd had destroyed his reputation.
He had caused the death of many men.
He compromised the integrity of the
general defending his people.
He forsook his role in the covenant.
And he became a failure as a leader
of God's people while undermining the
credibility of everything he has said and
done.
And he would have us believe that the
only one he failed was God.
Well,
let's start with adding one more to that
list.
How about himself?
And if we want to be accurate,
how about all of Israel, then and now?
The raw evil and wicked thing that Dowd
did was no longer just in the sight
of God.
Because, well,
now he has become infamous for it.
He had destroyed and buried himself,
and he was rotting in his grave,
according to Peter and Paul, because,
well,
they had every reason to assume that to
be the case after this terrible ordeal.
And then Akiba felt at liberty to replace
Dowd with the likes of Bar Kokhba,
the son of a star.
The Son of God was at this moment,
and
The immediate future is, well, a bomb.
Deadly and diabolical liberty.
And yet Dowd is inferring that God was
being too critical of him,
judging him too harshly by an unfair
standard.
It's like saying,
just because you're perfect doesn't give
you the right to impose your morality on
the rest of us.
Huh?
You sure you want to tell God that?
By stating both verbs in the infinitive,
the king is claiming that God was being
overly dramatic, too emphatic.
This is further underscored by zakah,
which implies that Dowd believed that
Yahowah may have been justified,
may have been justified on the account of
him being morally superior.
And no matter the implications,
the plain reading of these words overtly
state that Dowd was absolving Yahowah of
guilt for having judged him.
Well,
that took some nerve or at least another
vat of wine perhaps.
Oh my, playing the blame game.
He would say as a concession in a
one,
the punitive consequences of perversity
and corruption and a distortion of what is
right.
And by bending and twisting what's proper
and true,
I suffered the effects of writhing and
trembling and tormenting anguish during
birth.
And so in cheta', error, wrongly,
bearing the blame for going astray,
my mother,
she conceived me like an animal in heat.
That's what it says.
I'm not making this stuff up.
Psalm fifty one five,
if you wish to find it.
To check it.
Pretty astonishing.
He is now saying, you know,
you're blaming me, but it's not my fault.
No, I was born this way.
Yeah, as a concession, hen.
So what if,
since hypothetically and on the contrary,
surely when?
And it won't.
in the punitive consequences of perversity
and corruption,
in a distortion of what's right and by
bending and twisting what's proper and
true, wickedly and in iniquity,
wrongfully and libelously.
I suffered the effects of writhing and
trembling and tormenting anguish during
birth.
I was twisted up and distressed,
shaken and suffering in labor.
oh my,
we're going to blame lusting for another
man's woman, lying and taking her,
essentially raping her,
getting her pregnant,
and then trying to convince the man whose
woman she was to become gluttonous along
with him.
And then after he wouldn't play along,
sending a note with him saying that I
want him set up to die.
and then recognizing he was murdered for
this.
And you wanna blame it on childbirth?
You wanna say that all of this is
the fault of you being wrongfully and
libelously born in anguish and in turmoil
because, well,
you were twisted up and distressed,
shaken and suffered during labor?
It's one thing to say,
I don't know my mom.
You know,
you took me when I was eight and...
We don't have a single from her.
We don't know her name.
She made no contribution whatsoever to
Dowd's life.
Okay, so I don't know my mom.
That's a tough way to start in this
world.
But to say,
and so in cheta' and error,
wrongfully bearing the blame and for going
astray, my mother,
she conceived me like an animal in heat.
yacham 'any,
she was all hot and bothered sexually.
Really, you want to go there?
And they did.
Just when we thought it couldn't get any
worse.
It does.
But now at least we know why Dowd
grew up to see women.
There's nothing more than sexual objects
to be conquered.
Like an obsessed ram in a rut.
Not just in a rut.
In rut.
This confession, excuse me one second.
My dog is biting her nails.
This confession is as revealing,
quite frankly, as it is deplorable.
Its only advantage is that it affirms that
I have correctly interpreted these lyrics
and that my criticisms are needed and
they're appropriate.
The hot mess is the Messiah.
And if I may quote Nathan when addressing
Dowd, you are that man.
This inappropriate and derogatory
denouncement of the mother he barely knew
helps explain why the wayward king was so
stunned
when he met the ‘Amah, Yahowah's ‘Amah, Leah,
a woman who was brighter than she was
beautiful and more beautiful because of
her brilliance.
He had never met anyone like her and
immediately accepted her as his surrogate
mother.
But that was still, well,
at least a decade from this event.
As painfully obvious as it is that Dowd
is trying to obfuscate responsibility,
he has come to model Yisrael.
Like Dowd,
they also blame God for everything.
By comparison, you know,
my parents were between horrible and
useless, as were Laos,
and yet we are better off
for having overcome them.
Likewise,
Doge should have risen above his and used
his independence and success as a
springboard towards character development.
I did, Leah did.
He could have as well.
He should have as well.
There is no transmission of impropriety
through our genes.
The sperm and egg making the life
connection do not care if the sex that
united them was boring or passionate,
loving or hateful.
Our soul is neither enhanced nor
encumbered by the quality of intercourse
or the nature of the relationship that led
to its inception.
So while it's true that Dowd was deprived
of a loving and supportive father and
mother,
at least up to the point of our
intervention,
it is also relevant to note that he
had Yahowah and his Ruwach to guide him
and to protect him.
It does not get any better than that.
They have served as our mother and father,
both for Leah and I.
Now, sadly, the sixty-six, fifty-six,
I should say, year old king, well,
he was trying to blame his stealing of
another man's wife and having killed him
on anguishing labor.
As if he were somehow traumatized and
handicapped morally because of it.
He is even suggesting that he shouldn't
have even been born.
As if his entire life were a colossal
mistake.
Boy, he is wallowing in depression.
This makes Dowd irrational at this moment,
even immoral.
Quite frankly, bordering on insane.
Was it the mounting pressure of the job?
Or is it now the alcohol speaking or
simply the consequence of depression?
If not for the intervention presented in
the last Mashal, Proverbs thirty-one,
humanity would have died in the midst of
this stupor.
Had Yahowah not resolved this crisis of
character with the chosen Messiah and his
son
There is no chance whatsoever that Dowd
would have been sufficiently trusted by
God to fulfill Chag Matsah.
Can you imagine dispatching this brat to
do so?
He would never have made it out of
Sheowl.
He wouldn't even have known that it was
his mission to fulfill.
Dowd of course continued to bury himself
and considering what followed him as a
concession, what if,
since hypothetically and contrarily the
last time.
Well,
I shudder to think how our king will
incriminate himself this time.
Buckle your seat belts.
Hypothetically and contrarily speaking,
Surely, the conformity and reliability,
the honesty and truth you seem to want,
that you delight in and favor,
is in the unknowable core of a person.
It's hidden in the recesses.
Besmeared, overlaid, plastered over.
The capacity to understand and the mental
aptitude you perceive somehow exists
within me.
You seem to know of me and have
regaled regarding me is all secreted away.
It's inaccessible and it's concealed
inside of that which is hidden and
completely closed off.
Well, by this time in his life,
he's fifty-six years old.
He's heard Yahowah say a lot of wonderful
things about him, and he's saying, God,
nah, you're wrong.
All of this that you speak of,
this conformity, this reliability,
this sense of integrity,
and fidelity,
morality that you seem to want,
that you delight in, that you favor, well,
it's unknowable in the core of any person,
it's hidden.
It's overlaid, it's plastered over.
He's saying it's not possible for anyone
to live up to God's expectations.
And then,
Pursuant to himself,
he says the capacity to understand the
mental aptitude, the chakmah,
the intellectual agility,
the cerebral prowess,
the discernment and wisdom you perceive
within me.
You seem to think that this exists within
me and it's revealed regarding me.
Well, let's secret it away.
It's inaccessible.
It's concealed inside of that which is now
hidden and closed off.
It's blocked off, sealed up,
and shut down.
Well,
I would say that's thrown in the towel,
isn't it?
You're saying, God, you're wrong about me.
You're wrong about people.
You're wrong about me.
Now go away.
Now,
since him introduces a hypothetical with
potentially conflicting messages,
one would be naive to think that Dowd
was using the imperative mood any
differently all of the time it's been used
up to this point when projecting thoughts
on Yahowah.
As I have shared,
the imperative mood has three potential
meanings.
It is either an expression of
second-person volition,
which you're saying, this is what you,
and he's speaking to God,
this is what you want,
this is what you have decided upon.
It's an imperative, meaning it's an order.
You must do the following.
You are compelled, you are ordered,
you are commanded.
That's not a very good approach when
you're speaking to God,
particularly in the position Dowd was in
at the moment.
or it's presented as hypothetical,
as a mere possibility of something that is
highly unlikely.
And with the doubling up of hen and
two statements in a row,
we certainly have to consider the
hypothetical aspect of the imperative
mood.
And so with the second inclusion of hen
and two consecutive statements,
which are otherwise surrounded by the
imperative mood,
This is Dowd's way of making all of
this,
a confounding mix of hypotheticals of
concessions of commands and of projectings
one's desires on others.
Now, in this case, Dowd is opting out.
He is saying that Yahowah is either wrong
about him or holding him to an
unachievable standard.
He is also mocking God,
telling him that he's being unrealistic.
He has told God that no one can
live up to his expectations.
Well,
it could be the alcohol speaking or the
consequence of depression.
In his current state of mind,
the king doesn't believe that it's even
possible
for him or anyone else to measure up
to Yahowah's expectations.
He is saying that even if he had
the ability to conform to God's standard,
to be as reliable as the Almighty
requires,
and to be as truthful as is necessary
to garner the Almighty's favor,
all of that is buried so deeply within
him that it is undisclosed.
It is unobtainable.
It's sealed off.
unreachable, unknowable.
Well,
this is the Moshe meltdown of Bamidbar,
Numbers, eleven,
where he told Yahowah that the job was
miserable and impossible.
He'd prefer to die rather than endure
certain failures surrounded by the
malcontents of this day.
Dowd did one worse than Moshe.
Didn't think that was possible.
But he did.
There are two startling differences,
however.
And they're important.
And they're not flattering.
First,
it was the egregious behavior of the
Israelites that had frustrated Moshe,
who was of exemplary character.
Although he had brought this on himself.
And second,
Moshe didn't say that he was inadequate or
improperly prepared,
but that the job was impossible because of
the onerous nature of the Israelites.
But here,
Dowd is saying that he does not have
the mental acuity to perform at the level
that God expects.
In his fallen state,
he isn't near the man that Yahowah claimed
him to be.
If that man ever existed,
according to Dowd,
those attributes were now concealed and
inaccessible.
He had drunk them into oblivion.
In this way, Dowd was being very Israeli,
unable to admit that he had been
dreadfully wrong.
He said that God was wrong.
Rather than acknowledging that Yahowah had
been forthright,
Honorable and truthful,
he erased Yahowah's name from this Mizmowr
and claimed God had been unreasonable.
Yahowah's name doesn't appear anywhere in
this text.
Aggravating this problem, it was Yahowah.
who was currently unseen and unavailable.
God became so disappointed by Dowd's
failures to live up to his calling and
to complete the job to which he had
been given,
he was now speaking through
intermediaries,
treating Dowd like the rest of Israel.
And like every other Jew,
Dowd felt so unworthy,
he was having a pity party.
Affirming this conclusion, the king wrote,
You have Chatta’ah'.
You have gone away from me and you
have been continually mistaken regarding
me.
You have incurred guilt for having been
wrong about me.
It's you who are lost,
forfeiting the relationship with me,
bearing the failure,
including the resulting punishment.
of not being able to accomplish the goal
with me.
Falling well short.
With 'ezowb hyssop, I will be cleansed.
I'm going to be restored.
You're going to launder me.
You will wash me.
I will become whiter than snow.
Fifty-one.
Seven.
Either confused by wine or disoriented by
crippling depression.
God was flipping the tables and claiming
that
The God whose name he was too ashamed
to even say is now Chatta’ah', mistaken.
And from Dowd's sex and alcohol fused
obsession,
it's somehow God who Chatta’ah' has gone
astray.
In the twisted mentality of the king,
God was Chatta’ah',
guilty of having been wrong about him.
It seems that he was auditioning to become
the first rabbi.
And after inverting reality,
the king embarked on some, well,
rather clever quote mining.
He would resolve the mess he had made
with some 'ezowb, hyssop.
But by doing so, he was taunting God.
You see, 'ezowb, hyssop,
is first used in Carl Leviticus,
and it's used when addressing how Passover
would become the door to life.
It's the blood of the lamb that is
smeared on the entrance to every home by
dipping a bunch of hyssop into it.
Oh, that had to hurt.
I mean, if it's one thing, I mean,
one thing, monumentally stupid to say, no,
God, it's not me who's wrong.
It's you who are wrong.
You're wrong about me.
You're wrong about everything.
You're the one who forfeited this
relationship.
And because you forfeited the
relationship,
you aren't going to get what you want.
And then to say, but with hyssop,
You're gonna scrub me clean.
You're gonna be my laundromat using
hyssop.
He didn't read the Towrah.
He knows when hyssop is used.
It's used to smear the blood of the
Passover lamb on the doorway to life.
No hyssop, no sign, no extended life.
Boy, this relationship needed resolution.
No lamb, no blood,
making that less than an ideal solution.
But there were other options, for example,
in Cara Leviticus, fourteen,
four through six and forty nine fifty two.
Aesop is presented as a way of purging
the stigma of leprosy,
both in a man and in a house.
And Dowd would have known all about the
attempted subversion of Moshe's
credibility as Yahowah's spokesman by his
sister, Miriam, embittered,
and how that resulted in her being
afflicted with leprosy and disowned.
So Dad was rubbing this in too.
You couldn't even keep the first family
together.
Therefore,
just because he is currently stigmatized,
leprous from God's point of view, well,
he would avail himself and his household
of the prescribed cure.
Aesop, who needs God?
Just grab some hyssop.
We know what it's curative for.
Now,
by mustering Hyssop as the resolution to
his current dilemma,
Dowd was negating his own claim of
dunderheadedness.
That was really clever.
Sinister, but clever.
Apart from this citation,
'ezowb is only used on nine occasions,
eight of which
are in the Towrah I think it's actually
um seven of which are in the Towrah
and in this regard a particularly
interesting use of 'ezowb hyssop is found
in Bamidbar Numbers 19:6 and Numbers 19:17-19 this is
obviously in conjunction with the Adamah
Parah
'ezowb was added to the blazing fire of
the altar in which the productive bull has
been placed to purge the returning remnant
of Yisrael on Taruwah,
ten days before Dowd's return as king.
The other, by the way, use of hyssop.
is in connection with uh Eythan ha is
Ezrachy he's the man that wrote and
delivered the eighty-ninth Mizmowr we're
going to learn a lot about him before
very long
Should you be like me and wonder why
Yahowah would advocate 'ezowb,
hyssop as a remedy for leprosy and then
advocate it, or associate it,
I should say,
with purging religious ailments?
Well,
you might find it interesting to note that
hyssop actually offers a range of potential
health benefits supported by both
traditional medicinal use and emerging
scientific research.
Now these include, let's go through them.
Well, hey, there it is.
Skin health.
When diluted,
hyssop essential oils are successfully
used to treat epidermis infections,
even acne and puncture wounds.
And it is known to restore disfigured and
scarred tissues due to its antiseptic and
anti-inflammatory properties.
God was right.
Two, it's antimicrobial and antiviral.
Both,
hyssop exhibits strong antimicrobial,
antifungal, and antiviral properties.
It is used therapeutically to treat all
manner of ailments and is even proved to
inhibit herpes viruses and to treat
respiratory and urinary tract infections.
Three.
both immune and circulatory.
Hyssop boosts immune function by fighting
pathogens and improving circulation.
It is a proven remedy for arthritis,
for gout, for inadequate blood flow.
Number four, respiratory support.
The herb acts as an expectorant,
helping to loosen mucus,
and relieve coughs, colds, bronchitis,
and asthma symptoms.
It restores airway constriction and
relieves allergic reactions.
Doing this more effectively than some
cortisone steroids don't perform as well.
Dr. Yah.
It also serves in the digestive tract.
The oils extracted from the hyssop herb
stimulate the production of digestive
enzymes and bile, improving digestion,
reducing gas, bloating, and cramping.
It even serves to protect the stomach
lining and therefore helps to prevent
ulcers.
Six,
it's anti-inflammatory and it's an
antioxidant.
Hyssop is rich in polyphenols and
flavonoids such that the herb combats
oxidative stress.
It reduces inflammation while lowering the
risk of chronic diseases.
including cancer.
And seven,
mental and emotional well-being, hyssop's,
calming aroma,
is used in aromatherapy to reduce stress,
to enhance mood,
and to promote recovery from anxiety and
depression.
In addition,
the prolific lavender flowers seem
symbolic of Shamaym and indicative of the
concluding colors
of the rainbow as we move into the
fall, Mowedym.
Well, that was quite a lesson.
Our king was clearly brighter and better
informed than he was letting on.
It's also interesting that of the twenty
occurrences of sheleg Snow in the Towrah
prophets,
we find two of them in the final
Mashal and in this related Mizmowr.
The first presentation of sheleg is in
Shemowth, Exodus four, six,
when Moshe's hand was turned leprous as a
sign.
Therefore, white is snow.
But the most revealing declaration
regarding snow is found in Yashayah,
Isaiah one, eighteen,
which also combines scarlet and snow in
the same manner of the last word picture.
How scummy.
As he was at the moment,
Dowd was convinced that Yahowah was going
to clean him up one way or another.
He knew that God had more riding on
this than did the king.
The whole human experience,
the entire creation of the universe, life,
His Towrah, His people.
And he had an inkling as to how
it was all going to play out even
in the midst of his egotistical temper
tantrum.
Oh,
did I hear someone say egotistical temper
tantrum?
You listen to me,
you pay attention to what I'm saying and
hear me, joyful and happy,
even delighted and glad.
The backbone and body,
these bones that you have crushed,
that you have pulverized, they now shrink,
shriek, and they tremble, gyl.
They will shout and scream during another
stage of life.
Fifty-one eight.
Well,
there are times when Dowd correctly states
that Yahowah listens to him,
But this is not one of them.
The king is stating that God is
celebrating his plight,
knowing that he and his people will have
to fight for their very survival.
Worst note is blaming Yahowah for crushing
him.
In actuality,
it's the bull hinted at in the previous
statement and mentioned at the conclusion
of the Mizmowr who is dakah, crushed.
with only one bone left unbroken,
which is not the case with the Passover
lamb.
And while this is all jumbled and twisted,
there are some signs of lucidity in the
midst of the toxicity.
This is wrong, even if partially true.
Yahowah didn't want any of this to occur.
And the last thing he wanted was to
walk away from his son.
But under the circumstances imposed by the
king under the auspices of free will,
God had no alternative but to distance
himself from this mess.
You must want to hide as an imperative.
You have chosen to conceal your presence,
your very face and appearance because of
my Chatta’ah' retreat for having gone astray
with me bearing the blame and resulting
guilt.
So you must choose to wipe away and
blot out as a command,
a hypothetical or a volition
Decide one way or the other to wash
off and clean.
My 'awon.
My punitive consequence of my perversions
and corruptions for having bent and
twisted.
The truth.
Mizmowr.
song Psalm.
Fifty one nine.
Dowd would eventually come clean.
Both then.
recognition that he had been horribly
wrong and also in realizing that it was
essential that he come to grips with his
purpose and complete the job for which he
had been chosen and by doing so on
Matsah his guilt and ours would be removed
but now at this moment God is not
obliged to his guilt not his not ours
in fact
He will not do so without our
participation in the process.
Dowd was not returning to his senses.
He was not yet accepting responsibility to
the extent that he could complete his
calling.
And therefore our guilt would remain.
His still remained at this point.
So as we have discussed,
it's imperative that we understand the
imperative.
This mood normally serves to express
volition in second person,
conveying the will and intent of the one
being addressed.
It can also represent a command,
as I have shared,
and as the name suggests,
creating an imperative where the subject
is ordered to comply.
There is also a time when it is
used to sidestep reality,
to convey a mere possibility,
whether credible or not,
but as a hypothetical.
And so in Dowd's current depressed,
intoxicated and rebellious state,
all of these must be considered.
And then the most favorable interpretation
as an expression of free will,
Dowd would be projecting that it was
Yahowah's choice
his decision and will to conceal his
presence from the guilt and because of the
retreat.
Should this be the intent,
then Yahowah is being blamed for
disappearing,
even from running away from these adverse
circumstances rather than trying to
resolve them.
Then, following along with this approach,
Dowd could be saying that it became
incumbent on God to wipe all this away,
blotting it out,
removing the litany of horrid behavior,
all to resolve God's dilemma,
such that he decided to walk away.
However,
it is impossible to blot out the fact
that Dowd committed these crimes.
Obviously, we know all about them.
The stigma remains highly visible.
And I was on record saying that there
would be severe and ongoing consequences
rather than forgiveness.
However, Dowd's troubling assessments,
they only get worse.
when interpreted as if they are commands.
The king was in no position to give
orders to God.
And that leaves us with perceiving them as
mere hypotheticals unrelated to reality
and therefore wishful thinking.
And while that's better than wallowing in
depression,
it's hardly the stuff of legends, is it?
Unfortunately,
there is no resolving this problem.
unlike his opening statements where we
could redirect the mood by changing Dowd's
expression to the cohortative,
making this a conveyance of his desire,
that does not work with,
I want you to conceal your presence,
would it?
That is,
unless he actually wants God to look away
and to go away,
and that would be worse.
Yahuwah is deeply vested in humanity.
He wants us to live up to his
expectations and to demonstrate that we
can be perceptive, reflective, responsive,
and reliable in our inclinations and
disposition, especially in our judgment.
But this is only an imperative in the
sense that if we fail, we're done.
And yet, of course, that is on us,
not him.
It is true, however,
that Yahowah found a way to resolve his
son's emotional outburst while
reestablishing, I should say,
a more appropriate sense of right and
wrong for the king.
And for that,
he would dispatch the most judgmental soul
in his arsenal.
Yada, the par bull.
But even then, the Ba'al,
a master of pertinent da'ath, knowledge,
would not be deployed as an uncompromising
judge of character until the despondent
son was walked off the ledge by his
surrogate ‘Amah, mother.
Now that said,
Yahowah wasn't about to bara, start over,
by conceiving something entirely new from
scratch.
The existing soul would get his act
together instead.
But this is what Dowd had to say,
and we'll conclude our program with this
thought.
You must choose to create.
It is imperative that you decide to
fashion and form.
that which has never previously existed,
clean and pure, judgment,
thoughts and emotions,
inclination and disposition, all for me,
God.
Then it is imperative that you decide to
repair,
restoring and renewing by appointing a
firm and establishing a steadfast,
Ruwach, spirit within me.
Mizmowr, song, Psalm.
I'm going to summarize this and we'll
return to this passage at the beginning of
our next program.
But here,
Dowd is again projecting on Yahowah.
and saying that, God,
you need to start all over.
Bara means to create something which has
never existed before.
You don't bara' to improve that which
exists.
You bara' to start from scratch.
The first word is bara',
and the opening line of the Towrah,
and God bara', created.
Bara' from nothing.
Bara'
God is saying,
you need to start all over again.
You need to recreate someone with
judgment, with thoughts and inclinations,
with disposition.
So you need to choose to create clean
and pure,
to have majestic and brilliant thoughts
and emotions,
inclinations and disposition for me.
It's not my job to get my act
together.
It's not my job to become moral and
righteous and correct.
It's your job, fix me.
And oh, by the way,
that spirit you gave me is broken.
I need a new Ruwach.
This one I need to be like more
reliable, more stable.
So you need to renew that Ruwach.
It's hard to imagine him getting the place
he would say any of these things,
but he did.
And that makes the intervention by Leah as
the ‘Amah and her Ba'al as Yada among
the most intriguing events
and all of human history.
And of course,
we now know that the final Mashal word
picture, the thirty-first proverb,
is what Leah accomplished.
I have subsequently learned that the
person who was touting her,
speaking so brilliantly of her,
loving her,
who actually wrote those words that we
have read,
It wasn't Dowd.
It was me.
And I have also learned exactly what it
was that I said to Dowd that got
his attention,
that resolved this mess that he had made
for himself,
that he was announcing here in the
fifty-first Psalm.
That's going to lead to the majesty of
the hundred and sixteenth.
You see, I'm the co-author.
Of the song I have loved beyond all
others.
The eighty ninth Mizmowr.
I've learned a lot in the last two
days and I look forward to sharing it
with you.
As we progress.
Until then.
May Yahowah bless and keep you all.
Good night.